Replicate to sql with generic event (#37)
kuzzleio/kuzzle-how-to: replicate-to-sql-with-generic-events/README.md

1. `generic:document:afterWrite` an event emitted right after documents have been written.
1. `generic:document:afterDelete` an event emitted right after documents have been deleted.

```javascript
  async afterWrite(documents = []) {
    const promises = documents.map(doc => this.pg.insert(this.getProperties(doc)));
    await Promise.all(promises);

    return documents;
  }

  async afterDelete(documents = []) {
    const promises = documents.map(doc => this.pg.delete(doc._id));
    await Promise.all(promises);

    return documents;
  }
```

More generic and non-generic events can be used: [Kuzzle events documentation](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/2/plugins/guides/events/intro).

We used the well-known [node-postgres](https://node-postgres.com/) client to interface our plugin with a postgres database.

```javascript
const { Pool } = require('pg');

function createPool(config) {
  const pool = new Pool(config);
}
```

We will use the [Pool](https://node-postgres.com/api/pool) constructor to instanciate the Postgres driver within the kuzzle plugin.

> The pool acquires a client from the pool. If the pool is 'full' and all clients are currently checked out, this will wait in a FIFO queue until a client becomes available by it being released back to the pool.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we should explain how node-pg works, this seems out of the scope of this how-to. Especially considering that this is copy-pasted from the node-postgres documentation.

Author: I wanted to add some kind of explanation for this. But you are right there's no point

> To make a correct insert inside the database, we will use a multiline insert. Since generic events will send a set of records as a payload, it is wise to insert them together rather than one by one.

Reviewer: Using multiple INSERT queries is not incorrect, it's just slow.

```suggestion
For better performances, since generic events provide a set of records as their payload, we'll send them to Postgres using a single multilines INSERT.
```

    }

    return documents;
  }

  async afterDelete(documents = []) {
    try {
      const promises = documents.map(doc => this.pg.delete(doc._id));
      await Promise.all(promises);
    }
    catch (error) {
      this.pg.disconnect(); // if an error occur, be sure to close the connection to the database
      throw error;
    }

    return documents;
  }
```

Each event is link to a function inside the Plugin class. Theses function takes two parameters the first one is

* `documents` which is an array of each documents added by one request
* `request` which is a [Kuzzle API Request](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/2/plugins/plugin-context/constructors/request#request)

Many more Generic events exists, you can think of many use cases that will fits your needs.

We used [Postgres wrapper](https://node-postgres.com/), witch is the most widely used postgres driver on npm.

```javascript
const { Pool } = require('pg');

function createPool(config) {
    const pool = new Pool(config);
}
```

Once the client is instanciated, we can use the Insert sql method to pipe data from Kuzzle to postgres. To properly use the driver, you need a little work to format your request like so:

```bash

> INSERT INTO yellow_taxi (VendorID, tpep_pickup_datetime, ...) VALUES ($1, $2, ...); # And the you populate placeholder's data given an array of values.

Author: You are right, @Aschen already mentionned this in a previous comment. I am going to rewrite this part using multilineInsert

---
code: true
type: page
title: Replicate to a sql database using Generic events
description: How to replicate to a sql database using Generic events
---

# Replicate to a sql database using Generic events

> 

Author: In what repo should I add this link ?

I added my link in the root README of this repo since none of each individual how-to are linked to each other

> 

Reviewer 2: Look this page: https://docs.kuzzle.io/how-to/1/sync-data-to-another-database/

If I want to see the How To on Github rather than on the documentation, I don't have any link.  
What I suggest is to add a link like `[See this on Github](https://github.com/kuzzleio/kuzzle-how-to/tree/master/massive-data-import)`

> 

Author: Alright, will do for every How-to :+1:

    this.config = {};
    this.pipes = {
      'generic:document:afterWrite': 'afterWrite',
      'generic:document:afterDelete': 'afterDelete'
    };
  }
}
```

By declaring `this.pipes` inside the constructor of the plugin we can catch events emmitted by the core of kuzzle. Here, we will be listening to 

1. `generic:document:afterWrite` an event emmitted right after a document have been written.
1. `generic:document:afterDelete` an event emmitted right after a document have been deleted.

```javascript
async afterWrite(documents = []) {
    try {
      await this.pg.connect();
      const docs = documents.map(doc => this.pg.insert(this.getProperties(doc)));
      await Promise.all(docs);
      await this.pg.end();
      return documents;
    } catch (error) {
      throw error;
    }
}
async afterDelete(documents = []) {
    try {
      await this.pg.connect();
      const docs = documents.map(doc => this.pg.delete(doc._id));
      await Promise.all(docs);
      await this.pg.end();
      return documents;
    } catch (error) {
      throw error;
    }
}
```

Each event is link to a function inside the Plugin class. Theses function takes two parameters the first one is

> * `documents` which is an array of each documents added by one transaction

Author: I admit the word transaction ambiguous :sweat_smile:

* `request` which is a [Kuzzle API Request](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/2/plugins/plugin-context/constructors/request#request)

Many more Generic events exists, you can think of many use cases that will fits your needs.

We used [Postgres wrapper](https://node-postgres.com/), witch is the most widely used posgres driver on npm.

```javascript
const { Client } = require('pg');

function createClient(config) {
    const client = new Client(config);
    this.client = client;
}
```

Once the client is instanciated, we can use the Insert sql method to pipe data from Kuzzle to postgres. To properly use the driver, you need a little work to format your request like so:

```bash
INSERT INTO yellow_taxi (VendorID, tpep_pickup_datetime, ...) VALUES ($1, $2, ...); # And the you populate placeholder's data given an array of values.
```

```javascript

> funciton formatIndex(values) {

Author: You are right

    return values
      .reduce((prev, cur, index) => {
        prev.push(`$${index + 1}`);
        return prev;
      }, [])
      .join(',');
}

async insert(data) {
    const params = Object.keys(data).join(',');
    const values = Object.values(data);
    const indexes = this.formatIndex(values);
    const query = `INSERT INTO yellow_taxi (${params}) VALUES(${indexes})`;

>     const result = await this.client.query(query, values);

Author: :+1: thank you for pointing this out.

In fact i was openning/closing the database connection within this call and moved the logic within the function that call this method but forgot to move the call within the return  statement
(just for justification :sweat_smile: )
